this is the home of one forest creature
that has lived here in the Congo for 44
million years
big authorities
these birds mate for life and the male
reaffirms the bond by displaying to the
female they're building a mud nest on
the underside of the boulders overhang
where it'll be protected from the rain
the female takes the lead
the mail doesn't seem quite so skillful
oh dear
luckily she can put things right
[Music]
now she's collecting the soft
furnishings he's brought some too but
Easton can't get it right
[Music]
in the end the female seems satisfied
with the finish and just in time it
might look as if he has been banished
into the rain but in fact they're a
great team they share the incubation 12
hours on 12 hours off for the next three
weeks in due course there are mouths to
feed
and now the male must prove his worth
[Laughter]
worms are a good start
and he's doing well but the chicks are
insatiable
fortunately other things are on the menu
you might be a porn s builder but he is
redeeming himself now if undisturbed
wildebeest drink 8 liters in a single
session as his confidence billings he is
oblivious to what lurks beneath the
surface
[Applause]
[Music]
the herd is bewildered some have never
seen a crocodile before even as the full
horror
unfurls there is great confusion about
just what is going on and that was just
the first attack
300 hungry crocodiles live in the
Grumeti River
wildebeest react differently to
crocodiles and other predators even the
adults seem unsure and just how much
danger they're in the caster's are to
quench his thirst overcomes any fear he
may have
the pocket aisles maneuver around them
with surprising ease they are
intelligent hunters plotting their
attack with precision
a strike can happen at any time
[Applause]
despite the carnage the mother and calf
survived they Stampede back onto the
plains for the baboon's it's more like a
spectator sport they might as well
settle down a single croc can take some
time to overpower its victim but
crocodiles are cooperative peoples they
work together
the death roll breaks the prey into
bite-sized chunks but aggression can
spill over by late summer the corral
tanks contained the only standing water
the kilometers around
[Music]
the canyons more mobile insects are
drawn to this one last oasis for those
able to travel this water is a lifesaver
[Music]
these and wasps can carry the water back
to their distant nests but this tiny
pool of water lives just beyond the
boundary of the corral colonies
territory
but no end in sight such desperate times
call for desperate measures as the
search widens a small group of Corral
workers head towards the trough
this is unfamiliar ground for them they
are heading toward disaster
near the trough they stumble across
other honey ants and then a nest
entrance
it's only 40 meters from the corral
colony but that's been enough to keep
these two nests in mutual ignorance for
all these years these new honey ants are
unlike any the Corral workers have
encountered before they are big and
aggressive instead of backing down they
meet the challenge head-on and the
encounter begins to escalate for the
first time in its history the Corral
colony may have met its match
sensing the worst the Corral workers
begin to fall back towards their own
nest the trough workers go on the
offensive
the retreat quickly turns into a rout
stragglers a picked off
the flight is carried right to the
entrance of the corral colony
even here on their own doorstep they
can't hold their ground
the attacking trough workers drive on
into the nest
as news of the attack reaches the corral
Queen she withdraws to the deepest
chambers her entourage of nurses in tow
carrying the valuable brood
the battle spreads down into the tunnels
slowly inexorably it spreads down
through the shafts towards the deeper
part of the nest
[Music]
the replete are slaughtered
or tracked a way to be eaten later
some dead workers are carried off for
processing
the invaders take everything from eggs
to newborns
[Music]
many are eaten where they fall
they empty chamber after chamber
[Music]
finally the invaders overcome the last
resistance and break through into the
Royal bunker
the Corral Queen and her broods are
trapped and completely helpless held by
each leg the queen is on the rack
[Music]
first stretched then dismembered
it is a gruesome and ignominious end for
this once great ruler
[Music]
in just a few hours the corral colony
has been annihilated
the nest emptied
too late for the corral colony the
drought finally breaks markhor gather
for their annual rut males must fight
for the right to breed but on these
sheer cliffs any slip by either animal
could be fatal
[Applause]
a Snow Leopard the rarest of Himalayan
animals it's a female returning to her
lair
[Music]
these are the first intimate images of
Snow Leopard ever filmed in the world
[Music]
she greets her one-year-old cop
our den is well chosen
it has exceptional views of the
surrounding cliffs on these treacherous
slopes no hunter other than a snow
leopard would have a chance of catching
such agile prey
[Music]
a female with young makes an easier
target
[Music]
a large pores give an excellent grip and
that long tail helps her balance
[Music]
silently she positions herself above her
prey
[Music]
[Applause]
the drongo is the kalahari the greatest
trickster
and these are his victims a family of
meerkats desert specialists after
warming up in the Morning Sun the
meerkats begin their search for
breakfast the drongo can now begin his
tricks but he must first win the
confidence of his victims
[Music]
he spot an eagle on the hunt and sounds
a warning one that sends the meerkats
gratefully scurrying to safety
danger over and now he has their trust
he sounds another one thank you very
much
the meerkats fell for it
[Music]
this all seems too easy
and he tries to same trick again but the
mishaps are stupid they'll only fall for
it once the juicy scorpion won't be for
him then suddenly the sound of a census
warning no meerkat can ignore that
census never lie but the scent you see
is no danger
[Music]
guess who of course it's the drum girl
he's learned to mimic the meerkats own
warning call and now he can enjoy his
prize a gang of meerkats outsmarted by a
bird the father leads one team the
mother intercepts a panicking elk
[Music]
they all share the spoils but all is not
quite as collaborative as it seems this
pack strategy works well for the Alfa
couple but not quite so well for last
year's offspring the youngsters could
have their own pups but for the Alfa
couple that would mean more mouths to
feed and less for their litter so the
Alfa couple will actively discourage
last year's offspring from mating but
one of their daughters has other ideas
skulking behind the pack is a lone male
wolf he has no territory of his own but
follows the family scavenging leftovers
and looking for opportunities he spotted
one the young daughter
the intruder could be in with a chance
as long as he's not caught the path
leader could kill him
[Music]
[Applause]
while the pack is distracted by a bison
the temptation for the young female is
too great and she sneaks away to join
the mysterious stranger it's risky but
it could be her only chance to get close
to a potential mate
[Music]
when mating
rules lock together unable to separate
for half an hour to ensure fertilization
not so good if you are about to be
caught by your dad
the affair was always destined to be a
short one
[Music]
after a painful separation her new mate
is chased away with his tail between his
legs
Gulf grunion Scout the beach
[Applause]
then in their hundreds females surf in
on the waves shadow by eager males they
are here to spawn but it's not going to
be easy each female tries to propel
herself as high up the beach as she can
to lay just beyond the reach of the
waves
[Music]
drilling herself into the sand is the
cue for the male grunion to move in they
wrapped themselves around her jostling
to fertilize the eggs
[Music]
in the frenzy many eggs are dislodged
once flicked out of the sand they won't
survive
[Music]
although these fish-out-of-water might
seem vulnerable the mass of flickering
bodies confuses predators
[Music]
the greatest danger comes as they
wriggle back to see
this is the moment the pelicans have
been waiting for
slightly deeper water means they can get
their bills underneath to scoop out
their victims
[Music]
[Applause]
this female runs the gauntlet and makes
it through
our eggs will develop quickly in the
warm desert sand and be ready to hatch
in two weeks on the next spring tide
every lake and river has a resident
population of hippos they too are social
creatures but they are also territorial
spy hippo is going where a few others
dare to go
he needs to be cautious
[Music]
his subjects are notoriously bad
tempered and they could be anywhere
[Music]
it's never a good idea to get on their
wrong side
spy hip who has been given a warning he
must avoid sudden movements as he gets
closer you're wiggling shows confidence
facing one of Africa's most dangerous
animals spy hippo
must hold his ground the pod is made up
of females looked over by a single male
fortunately females are less aggressive
spy hippo is already capturing some of
the closest views that have ever been
seen but hippos spend much of their time
below the surface as the hip who's died
sue must spy happen
he mimics their movements rather than
swim hippos walk underwater
[Music]
through the mark spy hippo glimpses an
extraordinary sight
[Music]
fish are shadowing the hippos every move
these are Barb's they usually feed on
the riverbed but when the hip was appear
they shawl around them
as spy HIPPA moves closer it's clear
that their skin is a maze of cuts and
scratches these fight marks easily
become infected and parasites can also
invade
this is where the fish come in together
they set up an underwater clinic with
the hip who's as willing patients the
barbs may be skin specialists but
they'll try a bit of dental hygiene to
[Music]
after having a full-body treatment the
hippos seemed to enter a trance
[Music]
a carcass will attract every big
predator for miles around a Mayo
majungasaurus attracted to the feast
it is more than capable of challenging
for the carcass
[Music]
[Applause]
majungasaurus has short arms and can't
grasp
like Tyrannosaurus it's all about the
bite
[Music]
the shape of majungasaurus skull and
teeth suggests a very different biting
style to the flesh tearing dinosaurs
with a broad short and muscular skull it
was a dino better adapted to biting and
gripping rather than slashing its prey
this fight is about more than just
winning the feeding rights to a carcass
[Music]
when the bite marks on the mold when
jeonga soros remains were studied more
closely the marks on the bones were
found to match the only large carnivore
in the region there is no bigger killer
in these lands and majungasaurus this is
the first imputable evidence of dinosaur
cannibalism
it might seem shocking but it's a
behavior that clearly shows the most
successful killers will exploit any
situation to their maximum advantage
hunting on land Spinosaurus is also
forced into direct competition with any
large predators living in the same
environment
and here that can only mean one animal
[Music]
Carcharodontosaurus
contests over carcasses are common but
outcomes of such fights are far from
guaranteed risk of injury of big animals
is acute modern Komodo dragons are often
killed in fights over carcasses more
than three meters longer Spinosaurus has
signs and power on its side
[Music]
Carcharodontosaurus have the morning
fullback
[Music]
this time the spinosaurus triumphed
but the balance of power between these
two deadly killers is a precarious one
[Music]
in 2008 a spinosaurus vertebra was
recovered part of the tall neural spine
of the bone was broken off it appeared
to have been written in half it's been
suggested that the bite was inflicted by
Carcharodontosaurus Spinosaurus was the
last and the largest of the fish eating
dinosaurs but ultimately these
specialists were doomed something way
beyond their control calls their
downfall 94 million years ago the
climate changed global sea levels began
to rise the swamps and rivers that
Spinosaurus thrived in gradually were
lost with their loss Spinosaurus is
specialism became a vulnerability
[Music]
and the biggest predator ever known to
walk the earth disappeared
[Music]